content/README.md, before:

# What is Fusion.js

Fusion.js is a web application framework developed by Uber. Because Uber operates on a large scale in countries with slow mobile networks, performance is a big driving factor for Fusion.js.

Fusion.js has a modular architecture to promote small bundle sizes, and is designed in such a way that performance milestones in its development pipeline can be rolled out to consumers via version bumps, as opposed to requiring big migrations or entirely offloading that work to app developers.

Here are the features you'll find in Fusion.js:

* server side rendering and async rendering
* ES2017 and JSX support out of the box
* hot module reloading in development mode
* bundle splitting
* universal rendering (run the same code in the server and the browser)
* server-side development via Koa.js
* plugin-based architecture (so you only include what you need in your browser bundles)
* a curated set of plugins for data fetching, styling, etc maintained by the Fusion.js team
* plugins for error logging, security, etc.
* bundle analysis tooling

If you want to know how Fusion.js compares to similar projects, see the [framework comparison page](framework-comparison.md).

---

### Next steps

* [Getting started](getting-started.md)

Commit message:

Make docs more welcoming for open source contributors.

content/README.md, after:

# What is Fusion.js

Fusion.js is an open source web application framework for building high quality universal React/Redux/Node applications. It's meant for both small and large scale web applications. Because many Fusion.js applications are served on a large scale in countries with slow mobile networks, performance is a big driving factor for Fusion.js.

Fusion.js has a modular architecture to promote small bundle sizes, and is designed in such a way that performance milestones in its development pipeline can be rolled out to consumers via version bumps, as opposed to requiring big migrations or entirely offloading that work to app developers.

Here are the features you'll find in Fusion.js:

* server side rendering and async rendering
* ES2017 and JSX support out of the box
* hot module reloading in development mode
* bundle splitting
* universal rendering (run the same code in the server and the browser)
* server-side development via Koa.js
* plugin-based architecture (so you only include what you need in your browser bundles)
* a curated set of plugins for data fetching, styling, etc maintained by the Fusion.js team
* plugins for error logging, security, etc.
* bundle analysis tooling

If you want to know how Fusion.js compares to similar projects, see the [framework comparison page](framework-comparison.md).

---

### Next steps

* [Getting started](getting-started.md)
