documentation/docs/getting-started/index.md, before:

---
title: Getting started
path: /getting-started/
---

# Getting started

Fusion.js is an open source web application framework for building high quality universal React/Redux/Node applications. If you've never used React/Redux before, [start here](/docs/getting-started/required-knowledge).

Fusion.js is a collection of packages which form the core runtime, CLI, and build system. In addition, there are a set of [plugins](/api/plugins) that integrate with Fusion.js's Plugin API. Most of Fusion.js's functionality is added through these plugins.

Check out the [Fusion API documentation](/api/fusion-docs) for a deeper look into Fusion's functionality.

### Example app

We have a list of Fusion.js boilerplate applications at: https://github.com/kevingrandon/fusion-boilerplate. We're looking to expand upon these boilerplate applications.

### Create a new web application

When you're ready to start on a new web project, run through these steps:

* [Why Fusion.js](/docs/getting-started/why-fusion)
* [Required knowledge](/docs/getting-started/required-knowledge)
* [Environment setup](/docs/getting-started/environment-setup)
* [Create a project](/docs/getting-started/create-a-project)
* [Project structure](/docs/getting-started/project-structure)
* [Run your project](/docs/getting-started/run-your-project)

Commit message:

Add information about yarn create (#29)

documentation/docs/getting-started/index.md, after:

---
title: Getting started
path: /getting-started/
---

# Getting started

Fusion.js is an open source web application framework for building high quality universal React/Redux/Node applications. If you've never used React/Redux before, [start here](/docs/getting-started/required-knowledge).

Fusion.js is a collection of packages which form the core runtime, CLI, and build system. In addition, there are a set of [plugins](/api/plugins) that integrate with Fusion.js's Plugin API. Most of Fusion.js's functionality is added through these plugins.

The Fusion.js scaffold generated when you [create a new project](/docs/getting-started/create-a-project) comes with a set of pre-configured plugins, allowing you the freedom to just start writing your product features.

Check out the [Fusion API documentation](/api/fusion-docs) for a deeper look into Fusion's functionality.

### Example app

We have a list of Fusion.js boilerplate applications at: https://github.com/kevingrandon/fusion-boilerplate. We're looking to expand upon these boilerplate applications.

### Create a new web application

When you're ready to start on a new web project, run through these steps:

* [Why Fusion.js](/docs/getting-started/why-fusion)
* [Required knowledge](/docs/getting-started/required-knowledge)
* [Environment setup](/docs/getting-started/environment-setup)
* [Create a project](/docs/getting-started/create-a-project)
* [Project structure](/docs/getting-started/project-structure)
* [Run your project](/docs/getting-started/run-your-project)
